Student/Challenge-03.md, before:

# Challenge 03 - Monitoring, Autoscale, and Security in Azure Cosmos DB

**[< Previous Challenge](./Challenge-02.md)** - **[Home](../README.md)**

## Introduction

In this challenge, you'll monitor Request Unit (RU) usage, switch to autoscale throughput, simulate workloads, and apply security best practices in Azure Cosmos DB.

Security in the cloud is a shared responsibility, and Cosmos DB provides multiple layers of protection. Cost optimization requires understanding how different configuration choices impact your monthly bill and implementing strategies to minimize unnecessary spending.

## Description

You'll work with a `RetailBankingDB` database containing transaction data to understand real-world performance and cost optimization scenarios. Using your existing banking application infrastructure, you'll enhance it with production-ready security controls and implement cost optimization strategies.

This challenge simulates real-world scenarios where you need to balance performance, security, and cost while maintaining a great user experience.

### Part 1: Environment Setup and Data Loading

- **Create the RetailBankingDB Database and Transactions Container:**
  - Create a new Cosmos DB Account. Choose a unique name and region. 
  - Select “Provisioned throughput” and enable “Azure Cosmos DB for NoSQL API”
  - Create a new database called `RetailBankingDB` 
  - Create a container named `Transactions` with the partition key `/customerId`
  - Set initial throughput to manual mode with 400 RU/s 

- **Load Sample Transaction Data:**
  - Insert at least 1000 sample transaction documents using this schema:
    ```json
    {
      "transactionId": "TX123456789",
      "customerId": "CUST001", 
      "accountId": "ACC987654321",
      "amount": 250.75,
      "timestamp": "2024-06-01T10:15:00Z",
      "merchant": "Amazon",
      "category": "Shopping"
    }
    ```
  - Ensure variety in `customerId`, `accountId`, and `category` values for realistic testing
  - Use Data Explorer, SDKs, or bulk insert tools for efficiency

### Part 2: Query Analysis and RU Monitoring

- **Execute Queries:**
Using your tool of choice:
  - Run queries to retrieve transactions by customer ID (single partition)
  ```sql
  SELECT * FROM c WHERE c.customerId = "CUST001"
  ```
  - Run queries to retrieve transactions by account ID (potentially cross-partition)
  ```sql
  SELECT * FROM c WHERE c.accountId = "ACC987654321"
  ```
  - Run queries to retrieve transactions by category (cross-partition)
  ```sql
  SELECT * FROM c WHERE c.category = "Shopping"
  ```

- **Record Performance Metrics:**
  - For each query, note:
    - RU charge (from Query Metrics in Data Explorer)
    - Query latency in milliseconds
    - Any throttling events 

- **Enable Comprehensive Monitoring:**
  - Navigate to your Cosmos DB account's "Monitoring" section
  - Under Diagnostic settings, enable diagnostic logging and send logs to a Log Analytics workspace
  - Monitor RU consumption, latency, and throttling graphs
  - Write sample KQL queries to analyze RU usage over time

### Part 3: Autoscale Configuration and Workload Simulation

- **Switch to Autoscale Throughput:**
  - Navigate to "Scale & Settings" in your Transactions container
  - Change from manual to autoscale mode
  - Set maximum RU/s to 4000 (starting minimum will be 400 RU/s)

- **Simulate Variable Banking Workloads:**
  - Create scripts or use Data Explorer to simulate high-load scenarios:
    - Batch transaction inserts
    - Concurrent customer queries 
  - Monitor autoscaling behavior in the Insights dashboard to watch the RU/s usage graph
  - Record how RU/s adjusts automatically and timing of scaling events

### Part 4: Enterprise Security Implementation (optional)

- **Configure Role-Based Access Control (RBAC):**
  - Navigate to "Access control (IAM)" in your Cosmos DB account
  - Assign the following built-in role to your user or service principal
    - "Cosmos DB Operator" 
    - "Managed Identity Contributor"

- **Network Security Configuration:**
  - Configure firewall rules to restrict access by IP address ranges
  - Review private endpoint configuration options:
    - Document the process for creating a private endpoint
    - Explain benefits for applications with sensitive data
    - Understand VNet integration requirements
  - Configure service endpoint policies if applicable

- **Data Protection and Encryption:**
  - Verify that encryption at rest is enabled (should be the default setting)
  - Review customer-managed key (CMK) options:
    - Navigate to Encryption settings
    - Document the process for configuring CMK with Azure Key Vault
    - Explain compliance benefits for financial institutions
  - Understand encryption in transit capabilities

### Part 5: Alerting and Cost Management

- **Configure Monitoring Alerts for RU consumption spikes:**
  - Navigate to "Alerts" under the Monitoring section
  - Create alert rules for:
    - High RU consumption (threshold: > 3000 RU/s for 5 minutes)
  - Configure action groups for email/SMS notifications
  - Test that alerts trigger properly during simulated high-load scenarios by creating a sample 200K sample JSON document, make it as Array and put it in one file so i can upload in one go, follow the structure <specify the structure 

- **Implement Cost Optimization Best Practices:**
  - **Indexing Policy Optimization:**
    - Review current indexing policy in your container
    - Identify properties that don't need indexing (exclude from index)
    - Configure composite indexes for common multi-property queries
    - Test query performance before and after indexing changes
  
  - **Time-to-Live (TTL) Configuration:**
    - Configure TTL on transaction documents (e.g., auto-delete after 7 years for compliance)
    - Test TTL functionality with sample documents
    - Calculate storage cost savings from automatic cleanup
  
  - **Query Optimization:**
    - Implement efficient query patterns that include partition key
    - Avoid SELECT * by specifying only needed fields
    - Use pagination for large result sets
    - Document recommended patterns for banking applications
  
- **Cost Analysis and Comparison:**
  - Use the [Azure Cosmos DB Capacity Calculator](https://cosmos.azure.com/capacitycalculator/)
  - Calculate estimated monthly costs for:
    - Manual throughput at 400 RU/s
    - Manual throughput at 4000 RU/s  
    - Autoscale with max 4000 RU/s
  - Document scenarios where each approach would be most cost-effective
  - Consider peak vs off-peak usage patterns typical in banking


### Part 6: Advanced Security and Cost Analysis

- **Security Assessment and Compliance:**
  - Document all security features currently enabled
  - Create a security checklist for production banking environments:
    - Data encryption (at rest and in transit)
    - Network isolation and access controls
    - Audit logging and monitoring
    - Identity and access management
  - Research compliance features relevant to financial services (GDPR, PCI DSS)
  - Explain how managed identity integration enhances security

- **Comprehensive Cost Optimization Report:**
  - Compare total cost of ownership for different configurations:
    - Manual vs autoscale throughput strategies
    - Impact of partition key choices on cross-partition queries
    - Storage optimization through indexing and TTL
  - Create recommendations for ongoing cost management:
    - Regular monitoring and alerting procedures
    - Capacity planning for growth
    - Performance testing methodologies
  - Document best practices for minimizing RU consumption in banking applications

## Success Criteria

To complete this challenge successfully, you should demonstrate your understanding of Cosmos DB monitoring, autoscale, and security:

- Successfully create the `RetailBankingDB` database and `Transactions` container, load at least 1000 sample transaction documents with varied data
- Execute single-partition, potentially cross-partition, and cross-partition queries, recording RU charges, latency, and throttling metrics for each
- Enable diagnostic logging and monitoring, configure autoscale throughput (max 4000 RU/s), and successfully simulate workload scenarios that demonstrate autoscaling behavior
- (Optional) Configure RBAC roles, network security (firewall rules, private endpoint documentation), and document data protection mechanisms including encryption at rest and in transit
- Set up monitoring alerts for RU consumption spikes with proper action groups and implement cost optimization through indexing policy changes, TTL configuration, and query optimization
- Perform cost analysis comparing manual vs autoscale throughput strategies and document security features with a compliance-focused checklist for production banking environments

## Learning Resources

- [Security in Azure Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cosmos-db/database-security)
- [Cost optimization in Azure Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cosmos-db/plan-manage-costs)
- [Monitoring Azure Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cosmos-db/monitor-cosmos-db)
- [Autoscale in Azure Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cosmos-db/provision-throughput-autoscale)
- [Azure Cosmos DB pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/cosmos-db/)

## Tips

- Use the Azure Pricing Calculator to model different scenarios before implementing changes
- Monitor costs closely during testing to avoid unexpected charges
- Autoscale is most beneficial for workloads with unpredictable traffic patterns
- Cross-partition queries can be expensive - always include partition key in filters when possible
- TTL can significantly reduce storage costs by automatically cleaning up old data
- Network restrictions should be tested carefully to avoid blocking legitimate access

## Advanced Challenges (Optional)

- **Multi-Region Setup:** Configure global distribution and analyze the cost implications
- **Backup and Restore:** Test backup configurations and restore procedures
- **Advanced Monitoring:** Create custom dashboards and KQL queries for operational insights
- **Performance Benchmarking:** Use tools like Azure Cosmos DB Emulator to benchmark different configurations
- **Compliance Configuration:** Research and document compliance features (GDPR, HIPAA, etc.)

## Troubleshooting

- If autoscale doesn't trigger, ensure you're generating sufficient load consistently
- Monitor the Azure Service Health dashboard for any service issues
- Check that RBAC roles are properly assigned if access issues occur
- Verify firewall rules if connection problems arise
- Use the Activity Log to troubleshoot configuration changes

## Clean Up

After completing this challenge:
- Delete any test containers created during the exercises
- Review and clean up any unnecessary alert rules
- Consider preserving the main banking application for future reference
- Document lessons learned and best practices discovered

**[< Previous Challenge](./Challenge-03.md)** - **[Home](../README.md)**

Commit message:

Update Challenge 03: Revise workload simulation instructions to include batch JSON document creation for efficiency

Student/Challenge-03.md, after:

# Challenge 03 - Monitoring, Autoscale, and Security in Azure Cosmos DB

**[< Previous Challenge](./Challenge-02.md)** - **[Home](../README.md)**

## Introduction

In this challenge, you'll monitor Request Unit (RU) usage, switch to autoscale throughput, simulate workloads, and apply security best practices in Azure Cosmos DB.

Security in the cloud is a shared responsibility, and Cosmos DB provides multiple layers of protection. Cost optimization requires understanding how different configuration choices impact your monthly bill and implementing strategies to minimize unnecessary spending.

## Description

You'll work with a `RetailBankingDB` database containing transaction data to understand real-world performance and cost optimization scenarios. Using your existing banking application infrastructure, you'll enhance it with production-ready security controls and implement cost optimization strategies.

This challenge simulates real-world scenarios where you need to balance performance, security, and cost while maintaining a great user experience.

### Part 1: Environment Setup and Data Loading

- **Create the RetailBankingDB Database and Transactions Container:**
  - Create a new Cosmos DB Account. Choose a unique name and region. 
  - Select “Provisioned throughput” and enable “Azure Cosmos DB for NoSQL API”
  - Create a new database called `RetailBankingDB` 
  - Create a container named `Transactions` with the partition key `/customerId`
  - Set initial throughput to manual mode with 400 RU/s 

- **Load Sample Transaction Data:**
  - Insert at least 1000 sample transaction documents using this schema:
    ```json
    {
      "transactionId": "TX123456789",
      "customerId": "CUST001", 
      "accountId": "ACC987654321",
      "amount": 250.75,
      "timestamp": "2024-06-01T10:15:00Z",
      "merchant": "Amazon",
      "category": "Shopping"
    }
    ```
  - Ensure variety in `customerId`, `accountId`, and `category` values for realistic testing
  - Use Data Explorer, SDKs, or bulk insert tools for efficiency

### Part 2: Query Analysis and RU Monitoring

- **Execute Queries:**
Using your tool of choice:
  - Run queries to retrieve transactions by customer ID (single partition)
  ```sql
  SELECT * FROM c WHERE c.customerId = "CUST001"
  ```
  - Run queries to retrieve transactions by account ID (potentially cross-partition)
  ```sql
  SELECT * FROM c WHERE c.accountId = "ACC987654321"
  ```
  - Run queries to retrieve transactions by category (cross-partition)
  ```sql
  SELECT * FROM c WHERE c.category = "Shopping"
  ```

- **Record Performance Metrics:**
  - For each query, note:
    - RU charge (from Query Metrics in Data Explorer)
    - Query latency in milliseconds
    - Any throttling events 

- **Enable Comprehensive Monitoring:**
  - Navigate to your Cosmos DB account's "Monitoring" section
  - Under Diagnostic settings, enable diagnostic logging and send logs to a Log Analytics workspace
  - Monitor RU consumption, latency, and throttling graphs
  - Write sample KQL queries to analyze RU usage over time

### Part 3: Autoscale Configuration and Workload Simulation

- **Switch to Autoscale Throughput:**
  - Navigate to "Scale & Settings" in your Transactions container
  - Change from manual to autoscale mode
  - Set maximum RU/s to 4000 (starting minimum will be 400 RU/s)

- **Simulate Variable Banking Workloads:**
  - Create scripts or use Data Explorer to simulate high-load scenarios:
    - Create a sample 200K sample JSON document, make it an array, and put it in one file so it can be uploaded in one go. You can use the same schema you used in part 1. 
  - Monitor autoscaling behavior in the Insights dashboard to watch the RU/s usage graph
  - Record how RU/s adjusts automatically and timing of scaling events

### Part 4: Enterprise Security Implementation (optional)

- **Configure Role-Based Access Control (RBAC):**
  - Navigate to "Access control (IAM)" in your Cosmos DB account
  - Assign the following built-in role to your user or service principal
    - "Cosmos DB Operator" 
    - "Managed Identity Contributor"

- **Network Security Configuration:**
  - Configure firewall rules to restrict access by IP address ranges
  - Review private endpoint configuration options:
    - Document the process for creating a private endpoint
    - Explain benefits for applications with sensitive data
    - Understand VNet integration requirements
  - Configure service endpoint policies if applicable

- **Data Protection and Encryption:**
  - Verify that encryption at rest is enabled (should be the default setting)
  - Review customer-managed key (CMK) options:
    - Navigate to Encryption settings
    - Document the process for configuring CMK with Azure Key Vault
    - Explain compliance benefits for financial institutions
  - Understand encryption in transit capabilities

### Part 5: Alerting and Cost Management

- **Configure Monitoring Alerts for RU consumption spikes:**
  - Navigate to "Alerts" under the Monitoring section
  - Create alert rules for:
    - High RU consumption (threshold: > 3000 RU/s for 5 minutes)
  - Configure action groups for email/SMS notifications
  - Test that alerts trigger properly during simulated high-load scenarios by creating a sample 200K sample JSON document, make it as Array and put it in one file so i can upload in one go, follow the structure <specify the structure 

- **Implement Cost Optimization Best Practices:**
  - **Indexing Policy Optimization:**
    - Review current indexing policy in your container
    - Identify properties that don't need indexing (exclude from index)
    - Configure composite indexes for common multi-property queries
    - Test query performance before and after indexing changes
  
  - **Time-to-Live (TTL) Configuration:**
    - Configure TTL on transaction documents (e.g., auto-delete after 7 years for compliance)
    - Test TTL functionality with sample documents
    - Calculate storage cost savings from automatic cleanup
  
  - **Query Optimization:**
    - Implement efficient query patterns that include partition key
    - Avoid SELECT * by specifying only needed fields
    - Use pagination for large result sets
    - Document recommended patterns for banking applications
  
- **Cost Analysis and Comparison:**
  - Use the [Azure Cosmos DB Capacity Calculator](https://cosmos.azure.com/capacitycalculator/)
  - Calculate estimated monthly costs for:
    - Manual throughput at 400 RU/s
    - Manual throughput at 4000 RU/s  
    - Autoscale with max 4000 RU/s
  - Document scenarios where each approach would be most cost-effective
  - Consider peak vs off-peak usage patterns typical in banking


### Part 6: Advanced Security and Cost Analysis

- **Security Assessment and Compliance:**
  - Document all security features currently enabled
  - Create a security checklist for production banking environments:
    - Data encryption (at rest and in transit)
    - Network isolation and access controls
    - Audit logging and monitoring
    - Identity and access management
  - Research compliance features relevant to financial services (GDPR, PCI DSS)
  - Explain how managed identity integration enhances security

- **Comprehensive Cost Optimization Report:**
  - Compare total cost of ownership for different configurations:
    - Manual vs autoscale throughput strategies
    - Impact of partition key choices on cross-partition queries
    - Storage optimization through indexing and TTL
  - Create recommendations for ongoing cost management:
    - Regular monitoring and alerting procedures
    - Capacity planning for growth
    - Performance testing methodologies
  - Document best practices for minimizing RU consumption in banking applications

## Success Criteria

To complete this challenge successfully, you should demonstrate your understanding of Cosmos DB monitoring, autoscale, and security:

- Successfully create the `RetailBankingDB` database and `Transactions` container, load at least 1000 sample transaction documents with varied data
- Execute single-partition, potentially cross-partition, and cross-partition queries, recording RU charges, latency, and throttling metrics for each
- Enable diagnostic logging and monitoring, configure autoscale throughput (max 4000 RU/s), and successfully simulate workload scenarios that demonstrate autoscaling behavior
- (Optional) Configure RBAC roles, network security (firewall rules, private endpoint documentation), and document data protection mechanisms including encryption at rest and in transit
- Set up monitoring alerts for RU consumption spikes with proper action groups and implement cost optimization through indexing policy changes, TTL configuration, and query optimization
- Perform cost analysis comparing manual vs autoscale throughput strategies and document security features with a compliance-focused checklist for production banking environments

## Learning Resources

- [Security in Azure Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cosmos-db/database-security)
- [Cost optimization in Azure Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cosmos-db/plan-manage-costs)
- [Monitoring Azure Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cosmos-db/monitor-cosmos-db)
- [Autoscale in Azure Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cosmos-db/provision-throughput-autoscale)
- [Azure Cosmos DB pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/cosmos-db/)

## Tips

- Use the Azure Pricing Calculator to model different scenarios before implementing changes
- Monitor costs closely during testing to avoid unexpected charges
- Autoscale is most beneficial for workloads with unpredictable traffic patterns
- Cross-partition queries can be expensive - always include partition key in filters when possible
- TTL can significantly reduce storage costs by automatically cleaning up old data
- Network restrictions should be tested carefully to avoid blocking legitimate access

## Advanced Challenges (Optional)

- **Multi-Region Setup:** Configure global distribution and analyze the cost implications
- **Backup and Restore:** Test backup configurations and restore procedures
- **Advanced Monitoring:** Create custom dashboards and KQL queries for operational insights
- **Performance Benchmarking:** Use tools like Azure Cosmos DB Emulator to benchmark different configurations
- **Compliance Configuration:** Research and document compliance features (GDPR, HIPAA, etc.)

## Troubleshooting

- If autoscale doesn't trigger, ensure you're generating sufficient load consistently
- Monitor the Azure Service Health dashboard for any service issues
- Check that RBAC roles are properly assigned if access issues occur
- Verify firewall rules if connection problems arise
- Use the Activity Log to troubleshoot configuration changes

## Clean Up

After completing this challenge:
- Delete any test containers created during the exercises
- Review and clean up any unnecessary alert rules
- Consider preserving the main banking application for future reference
- Document lessons learned and best practices discovered

**[< Previous Challenge](./Challenge-03.md)** - **[Home](../README.md)**
